internal sol for boi2020 graph (#5703)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/silver/baltic-20-graph.mdx

---
id: baltic-20-graph
source: Baltic OI
title: 2020 - Graph
author: David Zhou
---

[Official Analysis](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/80525)

## Explanation

### Constraint Propagation

Suppose the value of one endpoint of an edge is $u$. If $u + v = s$, then we can find the value of the other endpoint to be $v = s - u$. Based on this, if we fix one node's value in a connected component, all other values in that component are determined by following the edges.

### Determining General Values of Nodes

For each connected component, we can express all node values in terms of a single variable $x$:

- We start with an arbitrary node and set its value to $x$
- Then we propagate through the edges. If $u = ax + b$ and edge $(u,v)$ has sum $s$, then $v = s - u = -ax + (s - b)$

> This means that every node's value is represented in the form of $ax + b$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that every node's value is represented in the form of $cx + d$.
```
or smth other than a, b (might confuse ppl imo?)

				if (res.second != w) { impossible = true; }
			} else {
				// can solve for x
				ll expected;
				if (res.first == 2) {
					expected = w - res.second;
				} else {
					expected = res.second - w;
				}
				if (current_val == INF) {
					current_val = expected;
				} else if (current_val != expected) {
					// contradiction with previously determined x
					impossible = true;
					return;
				}
			}
		} else {
			// compute neighbor's value based on edge: v = w - u
			coeffs[v] = {-coeffs[u].first, w - coeffs[u].second};
			dfs(v);
		}
	}
}

void propagate(int u) {
	// once x is known, propagate actual values through component
	vis[u] = true;
	for (auto [v, w] : adj[u]) {
		if (!vis[v]) {
			ans[v] = w - ans[u];
			propagate(v);
		}
	}
}

double find_median(const vector<int> &comp) {
	// optimal x minimizes sum of |ax+b|, which occurs at median of roots
	vector<ll> roots;
	for (int node : comp) {
		if (coeffs[node].first == 1) {
			roots.push_back(-coeffs[node].second);
		} else {
			roots.push_back(coeffs[node].second);
		}
	}
	sort(roots.begin(), roots.end());
	int sz = roots.size();
	return (roots[(sz - 1) / 2] + roots[sz / 2]) / 2.0;
}

int main() {

> 	ios_base::sync_with_stdio(false);

Reviewer: is fastio necessary? iirc we usually avoid it unless it makes a diff
